---
title: Polis
outline: false
editLink: true
---

# Polis

Polis is a [collective intelligence](#) tool which gathers freeform statements from people around a prompt (e.g. "What policies should AI models be trained on?" or "How should ridesharing be regulated in Taiwan?"), and lets them vote Agree, Disagree, or Pass.

As votes are received, the survey prioritizes questions so the highest-signal statements are shown first. Statements that are frequently passed are deprioritized.

Voters are clustered into groups, and [principal-component analysis](#) is used to identify statements that both groups agree vs. disagree on. It's also often useful to look at statements that the entire population agreed or disagreed with.

Polis surveys are often referred to as [conversations](#). Even though responders can't reply to each others' statements to avoid escalations of conflict, voters take into account other voices in the room as they write their statements.

## Experts & Delegation

Polis makes no distinctions between different participants or voters; everyone votes anonymously and experts' statements are not shown any differently than statements written by someone off the street.

### Experts

Modern deliberative democracy often emphasizes the importants of experts and representatives, where voters assess and decide which experts they trust the most. Polis could be extended to include some concept of experts, where voters review a panel of different experts and their positions, and then are prompted to vote themselves, perhaps on the same questions (credit: [Saffron](https://saffronhuang.com/)).

[John Brockman's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edge_Foundation,_Inc.) Edge Magazine hosted an annual event where the editor would ask the same question to a wide variety of influential intellectuals, and their format could be a useful reference for this.

### Delegation

Polis could be used as a survey for delegates, across various forms of representative democracy or delegative governance.

Decentralized organizations often have panels of tens, or even hundreds of delegates, which can be accessed through voting interfaces like [Agora](https://vote.optimism.io/) and [Tally](https://tally.xyz/). Municipal governments, or even state and national governments, could encourage their legislators to use a system like Polis.

The Polis algorithm could also be used on existing delegates' or representatives' votes.

## Language Models

There are many potential intersections between Polis and artificial intelligence. Right now, Anthropic [works with](https://twitter.com/AnthropicAI/status/1671950647393124352) the Computational Democracy Project to use LLMs to analyze Polis conversations.

* Language models could be used to label the top clusters of Polis respondents. This is a straightforward improvement that would take less than a week to build (as potentially could be done in one day!)
* Language models could be used to create synthetic data and/or synthetic responses. Given two polarized groups and top responses from each of them, a language model could be prompted to produces responses that both sides agree with.

## Clustering

### Is clustering valuable?

The standard Polis algorithm is configured to show the top two clusters generated by PCA. This usually gives predictable, but still meaningful, results:

* A survey of positions on AI clustered participants into those who favored governance of AI and believed in democratic processes, and those who favored acceleration and were skeptical of public-sector safeguards.
* A survey about the San Juan County [Land Bank](https://sjclandbank.org/pol-is-community-discussion/) clustered the population into people who were satisfied with the Land Bank's governance and operations, and those who were opposed or skeptical of it.

When groups are clearly divided, Polis can help surface statements that they nevertheless agree on. For example, the AI survey identified certain statements that had high agreement across both pro-governance and pro-technology camps - e.g. more interpretability research and stronger civil society institutions. These statements are often good material for policy recommendations.

### Can we generate more clusters?

There haven't been any recent explorations of what happens if PCA is configured to generate more than two clusters. For policy applications, the benefits might not be huge, but as an exploratory tool it could be promising to allow users to try different clustering algorithms.

## Real-World Events

Polis could be useful for groups with internal disagreements, like open-source and research communities with disagreements, mailing lists, and cooperatives like co-living/co-working spaces (credit: [patcon](https://twitter.com/patcon_), [Max Langenkamp](https://maxlangenkamp.me/)).
